---
layout: post
title: Week 13
---

# Learning About Software Licenses

## How Copyright can protect freedom to use software

The Free Software Foundation maintains and offers various software licenses that make sure access to software is protected on behalf of users. They include the GNU General Public License, GNU Lesser General Public License, GNU Affero General Public License, as well as the GNU Free Documentation License.

GNU General Public License (GPL) provides strong protections to users of licensed software. Any software covered under the license must be available to run, study, share, and modify without any restrictions that violate the GPL. Any distributor of hardware that uses GNU GPL licensed software must provide specifications necessary to install modified software on the device. 

GNU Lesser General Public License allows users to use LGPL licensed software in proprietary software without having to release the source code of proprietary components. This only allows the freedom to use the LGPL components of the software.

GNU Affero General Public License is for software run over a network.

GNU Free Documentation License is for licensing manuals, textbooks or other documents. It is not for software.

## Copyleft vs. Permissive

Copyleft ensures that the licensed software remains accessible and modifiable to users. Any modifications and re-distributions of the software must be licensed under the terms of the copyleft license. The main advantage over leaving the software in the public domain is that no private developer may take the software, modify and improve it, then release under a proprietary license that restricts users ability to study and modify the code.

Permissive licenses allow software to be released as accessible and modifiable by users, but users are free to license as proprietary any modifications to the software. Also, users are not required to release the source code for their modifications.

## Comparing GPL, Apache, and Mozilla licenses

The Free Software Foundation is not the only organization offering free software licenses. There are also the Apache License and the Mozilla Public License, as well as others. 

The Apache License is similar to the GPL in that allows the licensed software to be run, studied, and modified under the terms of the license. The difference from the GPL is that the Apache License is permissive. The Apache License allows for any derived work to not be distributed using the same license, as long as the license is maintained for the unmodified parts of the software.

The Mozilla Public License is also a permissive software license. The license allows for free use, modification, and distribution. The license, however, does not grant the user the right to the developer's trademark. Furthermore, the license allows for derived works to be proprietary. 

## Can Creative Commons license be user for software?

While the Creative Commons Attribution license is compatible with the GPL, it is not recommended to use CC license for software. The GPL defines specific terms about the distribution of source code and on patent rights, which the Creative Commons license does not.
