---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

### Catalina Cruz and Catalina Cruz: A Wikipedia Controversy

It could be described as a case of a really-bad-luck when at the beginning of your political career you discover a simple Google search of your name reveals links and images of an adult film actress. Catalina Cruz is a New York based attorney and is currently in the Democratic primary race for the 38th State Assembly district. If elected, she would be the first DREAMer to be elected to office in New York State. According to Wikipedia, the other Catalina Cruz is an adult film actress that has won and been nominated for some adult film awards.

A Wikipedia user, Erika “BrillLyle” Herzog, noticed the problem afflicting candidate Cruz, and proceed to create a Wikipedia page on her own initiative. **BrillLyle** proceeded to summarize the early life, career, and the candidacy of Catalina Cruz, including sources supporting the informations. As the adult film actress, Catalina Cruz already had a Wikipedia page, **BrillLyle** went to the Wikipedia-en-help Internet Relay Chat channel, seeking help in creating a disambiguation page that would allow users to distinguish between which Catalina Cruz they would like information on. At this point another Wikipedia editor marked the page that BrillLyle created for deletion, arguing that the candidate Cruz did not meet Wikipedia standards of notability. In the course of the heated discussion, where **BrillLyle** accused editors supporting deleting the article of a bias against non-English sources, **BrillLyle** revealed the real name of an editor she accused of “stalking her posts.” For breaking the terms and use of the site, **BrillLyle** was banned from the site.

## Was the author treated unfairly?

From reading this [Quartz](https://qz.com/1352568/running-for-office-is-hard-when-you-have-a-porn-stars-name-this-makes-it-worse/) article, it does make note that the relationships between **BrillLyle** and the Wikipedia editorial community were fraught with tension. The article stated that she was banned from the local NYC Wikimedia chapter for the “harassment of individuals.” She claims that she was being too upfront with her criticism of local leadership and of Wikipedia’s gender bias. Another point of contention she brought up was a criticism of the editorial process at Wikipedia. She claims she was 'dinged' by an editor, where her questions on the IRC channel were ignored and the editor proceeded to edit her work on the article. She claims this behavior is very common and that it inhibits new people from asking questions. She accuses editors on being fixated on notability.

## Is the definition of notability reasonable?

First I would like to note that I do not have experience contributing to Wikipedia, so it is likely I am missing some of the nuances in the arguments of notability. 

Temporarily leaving aside the fraught relationship between this editor and Wikipedia’s editorial community, we should examine the standard by which **BrillLyle’s** article was marked for deletion. 

Before that, I would like to add that **BrillLyle’s** article is currently flagged for publication in case Cruz wins the election. I will argue later that this decision is still problematic under the standards of notability and deletion.

One editor argued:
>[Primary sources released by her campaign] and glancing namechecks of her existence as a provider of soundbite in articles about other things [doesn’t satisfy independent coverage].

I do actually agree on this point. It is in the [notability criteria](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Notability#General_notability_guideline) that sources must be secondary and works produced independently of the subject, and there were sources that were campaign websites and editorials by the candidate.

Another editor argued:
>Unelected candidates are generally not notable, and there's no indication that Cruz is. 

I'm not entirely sure how the editor comes to the conclusion that Cruz isn't notable. [Deletion precedent](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Articles_for_deletion/Common_outcomes#Politicians) states that just being an elected local official or an unelected candidate does not guarantee notability, but neither are they inherently not-notable. They could still be notable if they meet the general standards of notability. There are multiple news articles, reporting that the candidate is the first DREAMer to run for office in New York State. The editor goes on to say that if there was an article on the State Assembly election and not just a Democratic primary, that would consider her notable, but this seems arbitrary.

Another editor writes:
>However, upon closer examination, these sources do not establish notability because none of them are independent reliable sources that give her significant coverage (and I couldn't find any).

The editor may have been just using *none* in a rhetorical sense, but I would point out that ABC news, El Diario New York (founded 1913) and El Espectador, a Colombian newspaper founded in 1887, are well known and respected sources of information.

And now we should consider the decision that [in the case Cruz wins](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Articles_for_deletion/Common_outcomes#Candidates), the article will be allowed to published. 
>And yes, of course the article can be recreated if and when she wins — if that happens, then her notability claim will obviously have changed.

While this seems to be a good compromise, this standard doesn't make sense in the case of Cruz: if her currently being a candidate for a primary office isn't sufficient for meeting the notability standard, then only being a candidate for local office or even being in local office wouldn't change the fact. The page on [*articles for deletions*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Articles_for_deletion/Common_outcomes#Local_politicians) explains:
>Municipal politicians are not inherently notable just for being in politics, but neither are they inherently non-notable just because they are in local politics.

Yes, the State Assembly seat isn't a municipal body, but state legislature races are considered having a lower profile to Governor or State Attorney-General races. Why would the editors determine that Cruz winning the Assembly seat would suddenly confer notability, unless she had notability (being the first DREAMER to run for public office) in the first place?

Also, if the notability standard determines the politician isn't notable, then why is the adult film actress considered notable enough to warrant a stand-alone article? A cursory glance at the Wikipedia page for the actress shows the sources consist primarily of adult film awards and nominations. The actress fails at the "significant coverage" standard.

## Were the editors justified in banning her when she violated the code of behavior?

Even after scrutinizing Wikipedia’s standard of notability, I do think that revealing the real name of another editor does justify being banned from the website. **BrillLyle** herself does admit in the Quartz articles that she describes her presence in the community as ‘toxic’ and as a ‘difficult, well-meaning idiot.’ I would also like to note that her banning was immediate when usually there are disciplinary measures, investigations, and formal warnings.

I would like to end this post with an argument that ultimately, the definition of notability is a subjective quality that won’t hold-up perfectly to any ‘objective’ measure. I am certain that all members of the editor community at Wikipedia understand this because in their notability guidelines all posts are:
>presumed to be suitable for a stand-alone article … A more in-depth discussion might conclude that the topic actually should not have a stand-alone article

All this really just strikes me as an unfortunate situation.
