---
layout: post  
title: Week 9
---

# [Assignment 10: Project Evaluation](www.compsci.hunter.cuny.edu/~sweiss/course_materials/cs_ossd/assignments/assignment_10_project_evaluation.pdf)

## [Quantum GIS](https://qgis.org/en/site/index.html)
  
  1. The project license used is the GNU General Public License v2.0.
  2. Assessing activity:
  
  * The last commit was 30 October 2018 at 5:30pm.
  
  * The project has 290 contributors.
  
  * People submit pull requests often for this project, roughly everyday.
  
  * Looking at QGIS's issue tracker QGIS has 2,162 open issues
  
  * As of 30 October 2018, 15 issues were opened in the issue tracker. All issues marked *high* have comments.
  
  * Some of the most recent threads have active discussions.
  
  * The issues are quite recent and consistent, usually every day.
  
  * Issues are getting closed actively.
  
  * There are 39 open pull requests on the GitHub repository.
  
  * Maintainers are responsive to open pull requests and there are active, polite discussion.
  
  * The pull requests are very recent, a new one every couple of hours.
  
  * 12 pull requests were merged within the last 24 hours.
  
  3. Assessing the Welcomness
  
  * On the GitHub commit page it's mostly other contributors talking with each other, I don't see much involvement from the development team. 
    
  * On the issue tracker site, I see some responses to open issues from the maintainers, but there are many new issues without any comments or assignees. 
  
  * Maintainers do respond to commits on the GitHub page, there isn't much of active discussions on the project bug tracker. I found one instance of a tense discussion on the user forum.
  
  * http://osgeo-org.1560.x6.nabble.com/QGIS-3-4-macOS-still-doesn-t-install-GRASS-properly-sigh-td5384037.html
  
  * Pull requests do get reviewed.
  
  * Maintainers do thank people for their contribution.

## [Gnome Web Browser](https://www.openhub.net/p/epiphany)
  1. Epiphany characteristics:
  
  * Main programming language in Epiphany is C.
  
  * Epiphany has 65,752 lines of code.
  
  * Roughly 12% of the code is comments.
  
  * There were 17 commits in the last 30 days.
    
  2. The project license is the GNU General Public License v2.0.
  
  3. Assessing activity:
  
  * The last commit was 30 October 2018.
  
  * The project has 641 contributors.
  
  * People submit commits about once or twice a week.
  
  * Looking at Gnome Web Browser's issue tracker, there are 416 issues open.
  
  * Maintainers usually respond to an issue within one day.
  
  * Most issues have one or two comments, but one issue opened four weeks ago has a large and engaging discussion of 48 comments.
  
  * The issues are fairly recent, aside from the most recent one, the others were opened two weeks ago.
  
  * Issues are getting closed in a consistent pace, typically closed every couple of days.
  
  * Currently there are 0 opened pull requests.
  
  * Maintainers respond to most pull requests within the week.
  
  * For the merged pull requests, there were active discussions taking place, many consists of more than 5 comments.
  
  * The last pull requests opened were 6 days ago from 1 November 2018.
  
  * The last pull requests were merged 2 days ago from 1 November 2018.
    
  4. Assessing the Welcomeness:
  
  * The maintainers respond to issues politely and with detailed responses on the GitLab repository.
  
  * People are friendly in when discussing issues, or at the very least respectful.
  
  * Pull requests don't get reviewed, but I suspect it's because it's a small project with a handful of developers.
  
  * Project maintainers don't explicitly say "thank you", but the tone of the conversation sounds grateful.

## [LibreOffice](https://www.libreoffice.org/)
  1. LibreOffice characteristics:
  
  * LibreOffice has 90 million lines of code.
  
  * About 12% of lines are comments.
  
  * There were 1211 commits in the last 30 days.
    
  2. The project license is the GNU Lesser General Public License v3.0 and Mozilla Public License 2.0.
  
  3. Assessing activity:
  
  * The last commit was 2 November 2018.
  
  * The project has 1823 contributors.
  
  * Contributors submit commits roughly every day.
  
  * There are 1775 issues open, according to LibreOffice's bug tracker
  
  * Maintainers respond to many issues within one day.
  
  * Many of the new issues have long and detailed conversations, with the maintainers asking questions about the issue.
  
  * The issues are fairly recent, with multiple issues submitted every day.
  
  * Large amounts of issues are getting closed every day, typically more than 10.
  
  * Currently there are 25 open pull requests, from LibreOffice's code review site
    * https://gerrit.libreoffice.org/#/q/status:open.
  
  * Maintainers have reviewed all pull requests opened.
  
  * The code review platform LibreOffice uses does not support discussion.
  
  * The last pull request was on 2 November 2018.
  
  * The last merge was on 11:55am on 2 November 2018.
    
  4 Assessing the Welcomeness:
  
  * The maintainers strive to behave professionally, at least in the case where a contributor is *difficult*.
    * https://bugs.documentfoundation.org/show_bug.cgi?id=121095).
  
  * Looking at their community website for questions, LibreOffice does appear to be a helpful community.
    * https://ask.libreoffice.org/en/questions/
  
  * Pull requests do get reviewed.
  
  * Maintainers do thank people for their contributions, as seen when contributors accidentally submit a pull request through GitHub.
    * https://github.com/LibreOffice/core/pull/19
