---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---

### [Assignment 6: Collaborative Editing Project](http://www.compsci.hunter.cuny.edu/~sweiss/course_materials/cs_ossd/assignments/assignment_06_team_project.pdf)

This week's assignment had us reading the [ProGit chapter on Git Branching](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Branching-Branches-in-a-Nutshell) and then working on a collaborative project with team members. Since we've been keeping track of our experiences, our task was to use git and *GitHub* to edit each other's blogs.

While I had experience using git to branch and merge code, I wasn't aware of how exactly git is able to keep track of commits and branches. I was surprised to learn that git uses pointers and pointer logic as the underlying mechanism for keeping track of changes. Having pointers keep track of snapshots of staged code means that the user can create branches in a fast and convenient manner, which is something I very much appreciate.

The collaborative project consisted of my teammates and I editing each others previous blog posts; correcting grammar and spelling errors, as well as offering any other suggestions on style and prose.

We decided that the best way of completing the assignment was to assign one person to first fork the other's repository, and work on any suggestions. At first it took some time to coordinate everyone to make sure we were on the same page. We used [Slack](https://slack.com/) software to communicate, which was very easy and convenient to set up and use.

The part of the assignment that was new to me was pulling the suggestions to my local to decide whether I prefer any of the changes. This had me creating a new branch and have it point to the master branch. I then pull my teammates repository that had the suggestions to my new branch and then look at the suggestions. The last part of the work flow involved pushing the changes I liked to a branch of my remote repository on *GitHub*. From *GitHub* I could then merge it to my master branch.

I enjoyed this collaborative assignment and use of workflow. I got some valuable practice in coordinating and working with a team. I really appreciate how this assignment incorporated my local and remote repositories to teach me how I can use them to manage my projects. This will be very helpful in any future projects.