---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---


## [Assignment 1](http://www.compsci.hunter.cuny.edu/~sweiss/course_materials/cs_ossd/assignments/openstreetmap_assignment.pdf): First edit to [OpenStreetMap](https://www.openstreetmap.org/user/audiencia-cereal/history):

My first contribution to the [OpenStreetMap](https://www.openstreetmap.org/user/audiencia-cereal/history):

* I updated information to local public libraries by adding telephone numbers and the library website.

* I also corrected the node to point to the correct location of a local church. I updated contact information as well as hours of service for English and Spanish audiences.

* I removed an incorrect node marking a street as the location of a railroad crossing.

* I added my first new building to the map: a bank that has been in service for a while but wasn't included in OpenStreetMap. I took it upon myself to add the building and include its address and company.


I was very impressed with the editing OpenStreetMap. There is a variety of tools to identify buildings and roads that allows users to provide accurate information. I found it very easy and intuitive to use.



I was particularly impressed with the amount of accurate information that users have contributed to my local area. A large amount of detail consists of retail space, roadways, and important public amenities such as the train station, the hospital, and the fire department.



From contributing to OpenStreetMap I got the impression that it could serve as a great alternative to the other mapping services, all without selling advertisements and potentially intruding into its users' private information. This was a very positive experience.


## [Assignment2](http://www.compsci.hunter.cuny.edu/~sweiss/course_materials/cs_ossd/assignments/assignment_02_readings.pdf): History and Context

One of the reasons I decided to take this course on Open Source Software Development with Professor Weiss is because I've been using free and open source software for the past year. I've been using the Ubuntu operating system for homework, listening to music, reading the news, and light gaming. I am impressed that such a large and complicated suite of software is primarily worked on by community contribution and which source code is available to anyone. I am curious to understand how it's possible that the genuine "chaos" of an open and some-what decentralized development model can be harnessed to produce competent and polished software, from media players to operating systems. Before practicing open software development, I do think it's important to understand the history and even philosophies behind free and open source software.
  
Before "free software" was a philosophy, it has been just a fact of life or rather a fact of the early computer scene. In the earliest days of computers, there were a plethora of computer manufacturers whose primary focus was on hardware innovation. Whether the bundled software worked well was usually an afterthought. As a matter of practicality, the scientists and technicians using these machines, modified and shared their improvements to the included software, at the very least to get it to work. At some point, with the consolidation of the computer industry, the standardization of hardware, and the development of easily-portable software manufacturers began to understand that the value of their product lays in the software. Thus, limiting access to the source code was in their interest.
  
At this point, we should understand the contributions Richard Stallman made for the free and open source movement. Being frustrated with the closing off of software, he came to the understanding that the freedom to see, modify, and redistribute software was an inherent right and social good. His solution to the problem of proprietary software lays in the legal mechanisms that allowed companies to close off their software; the irony is not lost on me.
  
Richard Stallman devised a copyright license, the GNU General Public License, whose terms require that any work (in this case, software) must be allowed to be examined, executed, modified, copied, and redistributed and that any copy is covered under the terms of this license. In other words, such software and its derivatives are protected by "copy-left," making sure it's source code is open and anyone is free to run and study it.
  
Now we get to his second contribution to the free and open source movement. Before writing out the GNU GPL, he launched the GNU Project, whose goal was to create a Unix-like operating system that could be studied and modified by anyone and would consist solely of free and open source software. Together, with the eventual development of the Linux kernel, the GNU/Linux operating system is one of the most famous examples of what the free and open source software movement can create.
  

Another important contribution of Richard Stallman served as an early example of what free and open source software could produce. One of the "killer apps" that the GNU Project offered was the GNU Compiler Collection, GCC. Around that time, many compilers were in the process of becoming closed source with a subsequent increase in prices. GCC supported a large number of architectures and programming languages, thus increasing its popularity.
  
The benefit of learning the history of the open source movement is that it helps me understand the motivation for why one would want to involve himself in such a project. I do think there is something appealing in the argument that sharing contributes to the benefit of all.

At beginning of my studies on free and open source software, I read *The Cathedral and the Bazaar* by Eric Steven Raymond. It is a work analyzing the different ways of managing open source projects and the principles behind them. One of the principles that most resonated with me was **Plan to throw one away; you will, anyhow.** He argues that you don't understand the problem you're facing until after you've implemented a solution, and the second time you'll probably be better at it. The reason this is very striking to me is that I've experienced this from the programming sequence of the computer science major. I've found that in the course of completing an assignment, I tend to get attached to a particular solution I've implemented, even if there is a better way of doing it. He is making an argument to not get attached to your own work; to recognize that just because it's yours, doesn't mean it's good. It is natural to want to evaluate what you've made positively, but this could be a hindrance to an open-source project where other contributors will probably implement something better.  
Another principle that I found interesting was **When you lose interest in a program, your last duty to it is to hand it off to a competent successor.** My understanding of this principle and its relation to the open software movement is that same idea of the detachment. To understand the limits of your interest and a natural sense of "ownership," free software as a movement requires the sharing of leadership as well as the code. When the time comes to move on from a project, it is in the best interest of what you've contributed, as well as the community, to leave it in the hands of someone you know who cares.
